Adds a page for integration with Entrust KeyControl. (#36)
minio/kes-docs: content/integrations/entrust-keycontrol.md

   - **Description**: Optional additional information about the secrets in the box.
   - **Secret Expiration**: leave blank.
   - **Secret Checkout Duration**: leave blank.
   - **Secret Rotation Duration**: leave blank.

Make other required entries as per KeyControl or your own guidelines.

### Attach the 'Vault User' role policy

KeyControl uses Role-Based Access Control.
Add a policy with the `Vault User` role and attach the policy to the user account used by KES.

Follow the prompts and make entries similar to the following:

   - **Name**: KES Service.
   - **Description**: Optional longer description for the policy.
   - **Role**: Vault User Role.
   - **Users**: The KeyControl account KES uses to access keys.
   - **Box**: Select the box you added in the previous step from the dropdown.
   - **Secrets**: All Secrets.

Make other required entries as per KeyControl or your own guidelines.

## KES Server Setup

After creating a new vault, box inside the vault, and the user access policy in KeyControl, you can set up the KES server.

### Generate KES server private key & certificate

Generate a TLS private key and certificate for your KES server.

> If you already have TLS certificate you want to use for your KES server or a working KES server, you can skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a TLS certificate you want to use for your KES server or a working KES server, you can skip this step.
```

---
title: Entrust KeyControl
date: 2023-08-01
lastmod: :git
draft: false
tableOfContents: true
---

> [Entrust KeyControl](https://www.entrust.com/digital-security/key-management/keycontrol) is a proprietary KMS that provides a secret store that can be used by KES.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Entrust KeyControl](https://www.entrust.com/digital-security/key-management/keycontrol) is a proprietary KMS which KES supports using for secret storage.
```

Somewhat clumsy attempt to remove the passive.

Author: Tweaked

```goat
                +-----------------------------------------+
 .----------.   |   .----------.    .------------------.  |
| KES Client +--+--+ KES Server +--+ Entrust KeyControl | |
 '----------'   |   '----------'    '------------------'  |
                +-----------------------------------------+
```

## Prerequisites

> This guide assumes that you have setup an Entrust KeyControl v10.1 cluster. 

Reviewer 2: Suggested alternative wording.

```suggestion
This procedure was written and tested against Entrust KeyControl v.10.1. 
The provided instructions may work against other KeyControl versions.
This procedure assumes you have prior experience with Entrust products and have followed their documentation, best practices, and other published materials in deploying the KeyControl service.
```

Author: Yeah, should have ripped that verbiage from elsewhere. This is good.

For instructions to set up an Entrust KeyControl cluster, refer to the Entrust documentation:
 - [Entrust KeyControl on AWS](https://docs.hytrust.com/DataControl/10.1/Online/Content/Books/Amazon-Web-Services/Creating-KC-Cluster-AWS/Configuring-the-First-KC-Node-AWS.html)

>  - [Entrust KeyControl on prem](https://docs.hytrust.com/DataControl/10.1/Online/Content/OLH-Files/Help-content-map-all-books.html) 

Reviewer: spelled out, and I _think_ the hyphen is considered "proper" style?
```suggestion
 - [Entrust KeyControl on-premises](https://docs.hytrust.com/DataControl/10.1/Online/Content/OLH-Files/Help-content-map-all-books.html) 
```

## Set up Entrust KeyControl

Before setting up the KES Server, complete the following sections in KeyControl to add a new Vault, a Box, and one or more Users.

### Create a new Vault

> 1. Login into your KeyControl cluster as `secroot` and create a new **PASM** Vault.

Reviewer 2: Is this the only possible login?

If it just requires root access, maybe go ambiguous as "Log in as a user with root-level permissions (``secroot``) and create a new **PASM**-type Vault.

Author: Tweaked

> 2. Access Vault Management, then select **Create Vault**.

Reviewer 2: Redundant with step 1? 

Possibly simplify down to

```
Log into KeyControl as a user with permissions to create a new Vault (``secroot``).

When creating the Vault, configure it similar to the following:

- Type: **PASM**
- Name: minio-sse-kms-vault
- Description: Vault for use with MinIO Tenant and SSE-KMS
- Admin Name: minio-keycontrol-admin

Fill all other required fields as indicated by KeyControl. 
You can set the Name and Description to be more specific to your MinIO deployment or as per your own guidelines.

Author: 👍

3. Make the following entries:

   - **Type**: PASM
   - **Name**: minio
   - **Description**: optional additional information for the vault, or leave blank
   - **Admin Name**: user name to to manage the vault
     
     Note: This user has complete access to the Vault.
   - **Admin Email**: Email address for the vault administrator
     
     Note: KeyControl sends a one-time password to this email address to access the vault.
     You need this password in the next step.

### Access the new Vault

> 1. Access the Vault URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Access the Vault URL.
```

   
   This URL should be in the email with the one-time password.
   You can also find the URL from the Vault tab in KeyControl.

> 2. Use the admin user name and the one-time password emailed to you to access the vault

Reviewer: perhaps?
```suggestion
2. Use the admin user name and the one-time password sent in email to access the Vault.
```

### Create a new Box

> KeyControl stores secrets in a box inside the vault.

Reviewer 2: uppercase Vault since it's a thing?

> Add a box to store your secrets.

Reviewer 2: Same thought with box -> Box

> 1. From the KeyControl Secrets Vault screen, select **Manage** then **Manage Boxes**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the KeyControl Secrets Vault screen, select **Manage** then **Manage Boxes**.
```

Author: This was removed in a rework.

2. Select **Create** to add a new Box
  
   or

>    Select **Add a Box Now** from the Manage Boxes page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Select **Add a Box Now** from the Manage Boxes page.
```

Author: Removed in a rework.

> 4. Make the following entries ont he **About** page

Reviewer 2: Same thought w.r.t making this generic, e.g. "Configure similar to the following and fill all other required fields"

Reviewer 2: Also step 3

> 4. Make the following entries ont he **About** page

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
4. Make the following entries on the **About** page:
```

Author: This was reworked completely.

   
   - **Name**: A descriptive name for the box, such as the MinIO Tenant name.
   - **Description**: Optional additional information about the secrets in the box.

>    - **Secret Expiration**: leave blank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Secret Expiration**: leave blank.
```

> 5. Select **Continue**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Continue**.
```

> 6. Leave the options on the **Checkout Details** page blank and click **Continue**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Leave the options on the **Checkout Details** page blank and click **Continue**.
```

   
   {{< admonition type="important" >}}
   Do **NOT** select **Secret Checkout Duration**.
   {{< /admonition >}}

> 7. Leave the options on the **Rotation Details** page blank

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Leave the options on the **Rotation Details** page blank.
```

   
   {{< admonition type="important" >}}
   Do **NOT** select **Secret Rotation Duration**.
   {{< /admonition >}}

> 8. Select **Create** to add the new Box

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Select **Create** to add the new Box.
```

### Attach the 'Vault User' role policy

KeyControl uses Role-Based Access Control.
Add a policy with the `Vault User` role and attach the policy to the user account used by KES.

> 1. Create a new Access Policy

Reviewer 2: Same thought w.r.t. being careful about UI guidance. If we can be generic and say "Follow the prompts and set the following things" it might be better.

Author: 👍

> 1. Create a new Access Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Access Policy.
```

2. Make the following entries on the **About** page:

   - **Name**: KES Service
   - **Description**: Optional longer description for the policy
   - **Role**: Vault User Role
   - **Users**: The KeyControl account KES uses to access keys.

> 3. Select **Continue**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Continue**.
```

4. Make the following entries on the **Resources** page:

>    - **Box**: Select the box you added in the previous step from the dropdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Box**: Select the box you added in the previous step from the dropdown.
```

>    - **Secrets**: All Secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Secrets**: All Secrets.
```

> 5. Select **Add** to create the policy and attach it to the selected user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Add** to create the policy and attach it to the selected user.
```

## KES Server Setup

After creating a new vault, box inside the vault, and the user access policy in KeyControl, you can set up the KES server.

### Generate KES server private key & certificate

> First, we need to generate a TLS private key and certificate for our KES server.

Reviewer: Maybe
```suggestion
Generate a TLS private key and certificate for your KES server.
```

> If you already have TLS certificate you want to use for your KES server you can

Reviewer 2: *or* if they already have a working KES server...

skip this step.

The following command generates a new TLS private key (`private.key`) and a self-signed X.509 certificate (`public.crt`) issued for the IP `127.0.0.1` and DNS name `localhost`.

```sh {.copy}
kes identity new --key private.key --cert public.crt --ip "127.0.0.1" --dns localhost
```

The output resembles the following:

```sh
Your API key:

   kes:v1:APvbt/zbiewXNB+EwciOT+I21peq0odFYCwkJX8mMCxM

This is the only time it is shown. Keep it secret and secure!

Your Identity:

   1d1f89ad528a3bbb8fd64252d443c993f5a4d679b074d5bad49785e02ec38199

The identity is not a secret. It can be shared. Any peer

> needs this identity in order to verify your API key.

Reviewer: join this line with the previous

Reviewer: oh wait nevermind, this is inside a code block

The generated TLS private key is stored at: private.key
The generated TLS certificate is stored at: public.crt

The identity can be computed again via:

    kes identity of kes:v1:APvbt/zbiewXNB+EwciOT+I21peq0odFYCwkJX8mMCxM
    kes identity of public.crt
```
 
### Generate a new API key

> The client application needs some credentials to access the KES server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client application requires credentials in order to access the KES server. 
```

The following command generates a new API key.

```sh {.copy}
kes identity new
```

The resulting key resembles:

```sh
Your API key:

   kes:v1:AOlQZJRMYZeOioGk0ubYBMSFt1w6Hh1QZl3zG4PQxK/g

This is the only time it is shown. Keep it secret and secure!

Your Identity:

   eb559798a2fbcc3efbf036bed11108116e63f293324abdfe7574249ef5e56b36

The identity is not a secret. It can be shared. Any peer

> needs this identity in order to verify your API key.

Reviewer: join line, as the one at 139-140

```yaml {.copy}
address: 0.0.0.0:7373 # Listen on all network interfaces on port 7373

admin:
  identity: disabled  # We disable the admin identity since we don't need it in this guide 
   
tls:
  key: private.key    # The KES server TLS private key
  cert: public.crt    # The KES server TLS certificate
   
policy:
  my-app: 
    allow:
    - /v1/key/create/my-key*
    - /v1/key/generate/my-key*
    - /v1/key/decrypt/my-key*
    identities:
    - eb559798a2fbcc3efbf036bed11108116e63f293324abdfe7574249ef5e56b36 # Use the identity of your API key
   
keystore:
     entrust:
       keycontrol:
         endpoint: "https://keycontrol.my-org.com"    # Use your KeyControl instance endpoint.
         vault_id: ""                                 # The Vault ID - e.g: "e30497c1-bff7-4e81-beb7-fb35c4b7410c".
         box_id:   ""                                 # The Box name or ID - e.g: "tenant-1".
         credentials:
           username: ""                               # KeyControl username - e.g: "kes-tenant-1@my-org.com".
           password: ""                               # Password of KeyControl user
```

### Start the KES Server

> Use the yaml file you created to start a KES server instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the YAML file you created to start a KES server instance.
```

```sh {.copy}
kes server --config config.yml --auth off
```

{{< admonition title="Linux Swap Protection" type="tip" >}}

In Linux environments, KES can use the [`mlock`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mlock.2.html) syscall to prevent the OS from writing in-memory data to disk (swapping). 
This prevents leaking sensitive data.
   
Use the following command to allow KES to use the mlock syscall without running with `root` privileges:

```sh {.copy}
sudo setcap cap_ipc_lock=+ep $(readlink -f $(which kes))
```

Start a KES server instance with memory protection:
   
```sh {.copy}
kes server --config config.yml --auth off --mlock
```
{{< /admonition >}}

### KES CLI Access

> 1. Set `KES_SERVER` Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the `KES_SERVER` Endpoint.
```

   The following environment variable specifies the server the KES CLI should talk to:

   ```sh {.copy}
   $ export KES_SERVER=https://127.0.0.1:7373
   ```

> 2. Define the Client Credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Define the Client Credentials.
```

   The following environment variables set the access credentials the client uses to talk to a KES server:
   
   ```sh {.copy}
   $ export KES_CLIENT_CERT=client.crt
   ```

   ```sh {.copy}
   $ export KES_CLIENT_KEY=client.key
   ```

> 3. Test the Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Test the Configuration.
```

>    Perform any API operation allowed by the policy we assigned above. 

Reviewer: Maybe? 
```suggestion
   Perform any API operation allowed by the policy assigned above. 
```
Perhaps `the policy defined in the KES server configuration file` even

Author: Taking the alternative you suggested.
